GROMACS 2023.6 release notes
----------------------------

This version was released on TODO, 2024. These release notes
document the changes that have taken place in |Gromacs| since the
previous 2023.5 version, to fix known issues. It also incorporates all
fixes made in version 2022.6 and earlier, which you can find described
in the :ref:`release-notes`.

.. Note to developers!
   Please use """"""" to underline the individual entries for fixed issues in the subfolders,
   otherwise the formatting on the webpage is messed up.
   Also, please use the syntax :issue:`number` to reference issues on GitLab, without
   a space between the colon and number!

Fixes where mdrun could behave incorrectly
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fix missing non-bonded interactions close to cut-off with GPUs
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The GPU rolling pruning employed with the dual pair list setup used
an incorrect list part calculation. This caused a few parlist entries
not to be updated after the initial pruning, leading to a small number
of missing pair interactions. Unless the pair list lifetime ``nstlist``
was very large, these interactions were close to the cut-off and therefore
the errors were small.

Affected simulations: all GPU accelerated runs using GROMACS versions
starting with the 2018 release with dual pair list enabled.
This is enabled automatically with default Verlet buffering, but
it is disabled if the Verlet buffer is manually set
(or if the ``GMX_DISABLE_DYNAMICPRUNING`` environment variable is set).

Impact: Our analysis shows that the error caused by the missing interactions
does not have a measurable effect on either forces or energy conservation
in most atomistic simulations with default simulation settings.
While a manually increased ``nstlist``, hence increased (outer) pair list lifetime,
leads to an increase in the number of missing interactions, for useful value of
``nstlist`` the effect is still negligible.
There can be measurable effects in systems with vacuum, gas, or with
excessively large ``nstlist`` values. In our testing we could not detect artifacts
apart from systems crashing, so the chance of undetected incorrect results is small.

:issue:`5138`

Fixes for ``gmx`` tools
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixes that affect portability
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Miscellaneous
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

