GROMACS 2023.4 release notes
----------------------------

This version was released on January 24th, 2024. These release notes
document the changes that have taken place in |Gromacs| since the
previous 2023.3 version, to fix known issues. It also incorporates all
fixes made in version 2022.6 and earlier, which you can find described
in the :ref:`release-notes`.

.. Note to developers!
   Please use """"""" to underline the individual entries for fixed issues in the subfolders,
   otherwise the formatting on the webpage is messed up.
   Also, please use the syntax :issue:`number` to reference issues on GitLab, without
   a space between the colon and number!

Fixes where mdrun could behave incorrectly
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Freezing AWH simulations with multiple MPI ranks per walker
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

AWH simulations with biases shared by multiple walkers and using
multiple MPI ranks per walker would hang when outputting energy,
i.e., already at step 0.

There would not be any incorrect results.

:issue:`4925`

With AWH for FE, mdrun could exit with an assertion failure
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The would happen e.g. when using soft-core only for LJ, whereas it was
also needed for Coulomb or when decoupling large molecules.
Now proper error messages are generated.

:issue:`4938`

Missing force contribution on neighbor search steps with GPU update
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

On a neighbor search step, when virial is _not_ computed (i.e.,
when `nstlist` is not a multiple of `nstpcouple`) and GPU update
is used, there could have been a race between GPU buffer clearing and
copying of forces computed on the CPU, leading to missing some of the
force contribution on this step.

This should not have ever happened unless the GPU was heavily
oversubscribed or hipSYCL/AdaptiveCpp was used, and even in those cases,
the problem was very unlikely to manifest.

:issue:`4937`

Fixes for ``gmx`` tools
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

|Gromacs| error messages no longer include broken links
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Two error messages used to contain links to the contents that are no longer
available on the |Gromacs| website. These links have been replaced with the
links to the relevant pages in the current documentation.

Fixed a segmentation fault in grompp with AWH and FEP without FEP states
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

:issue:`4932`

``gmx msd`` now raises a proper error when given incompatible trajectory
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``gmx msd`` internally converts frame times to picoseconds. As a consequence, if
the time cannot be expressed as an integral number of picoseconds (usually
due to too frequent trajectory output), the tool would crash or produce an incorrect
result.

Now, an error is printed in such cases.

:issue:`4694`

Fixes that affect portability
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixed compilation with Boost 1.83
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

:issue:`4909`

Miscellaneous
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
A grompp warning when using Parinello-Rahman pressure coupling
combining with position restraints suggested to use Berendsen
instead. This suggestion has now been changed to C-rescale.
