GROMACS 2024.3 release notes
----------------------------

This version was released on August 29th, 2024. These release notes
document the changes that have taken place in |Gromacs| since the
previous 2024.2 version, to fix known issues. It also incorporates all
fixes made in version 2023.5 and earlier, which you can find described
in the :ref:`release-notes`.

.. Note to developers!
   Please use """"""" to underline the individual entries for fixed issues in the subfolders,
   otherwise the formatting on the webpage is messed up.
   Also, please use the syntax :issue:`number` to reference issues on GitLab, without
   a space between the colon and number!

Fixes where mdrun could behave incorrectly
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Remove double dispersion correction with MTTK barostat
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

When the MTTK barostat was used with dispersion correction, the
pressure correction was applied twice. This caused the density to be
too high.

:issue:`5072`

Correct zero Verlet buffer for system with only large masses
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

For system with most masses much larger than zero, the Verlet buffer
estimate could be zero. Coarse-grained simulations could be affected
by this issue.

:issue:`5098`

Fix incorrect energy group pair assignment of pair interactions
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Energies for bonded pair interactions, typically 1-4 interactions, would
be assigned to incorrect energy group pairs. With free-energy calculations
this could lead to illegal memory access.

:issue:`5109`

Correct AWH metric with free-energy and Beutler soft-core
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The AWH metric was incorrect for free-energy dimensions when
Beutler soft-core interactions were used. The free-energies
themselves were unaffected by this issue.

:issue:`5107`

Implement Lennard-Jones force-switch in free-energy kernel
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Perturbed non-bonded Lennard-Jones interactions would use plain cut-off
with potential shift when force-switch was specified. The errors this
causes on the potential and force are negligible with the typical Charmm
setup. When (de)coupling a complete, dense system there is a measurable
error in the pressure, but this is again negligible when coupling
a single molecule.

:issue:`5016`

mdrun now computes the initial bonded distances with periodic molecules
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

When using periodic molecules, mdrun could quit with an error message
about multiple assignments of bonded interactions telling the user to
report the issue. The actual source of this was that mdrun did not
determine the communication distance required for bonded interactions.
Now this distance is determined.

:issue:`5086`

Avoid using invalid device streams
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Issue has only been seen via assertions in the GCC 13 standard
library that guard against null-pointer dereferences.
The dereferenced null pointers were never used in actual
simulations.

:issue:`5087`

Fix masks and alignment checks in Arm SVE SIMD
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The double precision SVE implementation contained an incorrect mask
for SVE implementations of 256 bits or more. This would lead to instantaneous
extreme forces/crashes on the first step, so it should never have
influenced any production simulations unnoticed. The alignment checks for
some SVE routines have also been modified to correspond to the SIMD width,
although this is formally not required on Arm, so it will not have caused
any errors.

:issue:`5080`
:issue:`5120`

Added an assert to ensure valid cutoff when calculating atom density
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Simulations with :mdp:`rvdw` and :mdp:`rcoulomb` set to 0 could crash
with a segmentation fault when calculating the effective atom density.
This is now handled by asserting valid values and halting with a proper
explanation.

:issue:`5095`

Fixes for ``gmx`` tools
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Permit ``gmx tune_pme`` to understand ``md.log`` files
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The format of ``md.log`` files changed in 2024 which broke the ability of
``gmx tune_pme`` to understand how previous runs worked by parsing that
file. Now ``gmx tune_pme`` understands better.

Avoid crash of convert-tpr on velocity-less tpr files
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The convert-tpr now works on tpr files that do not contain velocities,
as generated for, e.g., energy minimization.

:issue:`5080`

Avoid premature termination when using ``gmx hbond``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Fixed an error that caused gmx hbond to prematurely terminate if there were no donors or acceptors of hydrogen bonds in the chosen selection.

:issue:`5059`
:issue:`4985`

Add grompp warning about zero AWH cover diameter when sharing a bias
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Fix TPR generation with Andersen Massive thermostat and constraints
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

A restriction to not generate TPR files for the Andersen thermostat with constraints was incorrectly applied to also the Andersen Massive thermostat.

:issue:`5093`

Fixed filenames of generated CP2K files in QMMM MdModule
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If there were no files provided with ``grompp -qmi`` option, module used ``topol/_cp2k.inp`` instead of ``topol_cp2k.inp``

Added a check in ``gmx grompp`` to ensure that cutoffs are valid
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

At least one of :mdp:`rvdw` and :mdp:`rcoulomb` must be > 0 when using the Verlet cutoff scheme.
This is now checked by ``gmx grompp``.

:issue:`5095`

Fix ``gmx dump`` with options ```-sys``` and ```-orgir```
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

These ``gmx dump`` options had no effect. This has now been fixed.

:issue:`5124`

Fixes that affect portability
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fix build when GoogleTest is installed system-wide
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

In some cases (e.g., on FreeBSD), |Gromacs| build system can mix up
different versions of GoogleTest leading to compilation errors.
Now we always prefer the bundled version.

:issue:`5046`

Miscellaneous
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fix detection of rocFFT installed in non-standard locations
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Fix performance regression on PVC with oneAPI 2024.2
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

oneAPI 2024.2 enabled automatic GRF selection by the device compiler,
causing up to 50% worse NBNxM kernel performance on Intel Data Center GPU Max
(Ponte Vecchio) devices. We now force the use of small GRF mode on PVC
to avoid that. Arc GPUs were not affected.

:issue:`5105`

