GROMACS 2018.4 release notes
----------------------------

This version was released on November 12, 2018. These release notes document
the changes that have taken place in GROMACS since version 2018.3, to fix known
issues. It also incorporates all fixes made in version 2016.5 and
earlier, which you can find described in the :ref:`release-notes`.

Fixes where mdrun could behave incorrectly
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Correct PME forces with free energy without perturbed charges/LJ
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

With free-energies calculations with lambda not set to zero and no
actual perturbed charges or atom types for Lennard-Jones, the Coulomb
or LJ PME mesh forces would be scaled with lambda. Note that this bug
did not affect the, usual, setup where charges or atom types are actually
perturbed.

:issue:`2640`

Add constraint contribution to foreign Hamiltonian differences
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The contribution of perturbed constraints was missing from the foreign
Hamiltonian values. This is important for free energy calculations,
such as BAR.

:issue:`2703`

Add mass contribution to foreign Hamiltonian differences
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

For free energy calculations with perturbed masses, the kinetic energy
contribution was missing from the foreign Hamiltonian values.

:issue:`2703`

Work around bugs with expanded ensemble runs
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

With expanded ensemble runs, the energies would be outdated or zero
with the velocity Verlet integrator with nstcalcenergy>1 or with
other integrators when nstexpanded was not a multiple of nstcalcenergy.
In these cases mdrun now sets nstcalcenergy to 1.

:issue:`2714`
:issue:`2718`

Checkpoint continuations require suitable .tpr files
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
The step of a checkpoint file used for an mdrun restart must now be
less than the number of steps in the .tpr. Formerly, the step in the
checkpoint could be any number, and mdrun -nsteps could be used to get
a particular result, but the use of that option is already deprecated.
Use gmx grompp or gmx convert-tpr to make a .tpr file that expresses
the intent.

:issue:`2717`

Fixes for ``gmx`` tools
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fix mindist output file checks
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

mindist would not check if the output file needed to print residue names and
residue contacts over time was actually defined, leading to errors with
empty file name strings.

:issue:`2653`

Fix gmx helix segmentation faults
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The .tpr file is now read correctly, and the helix analysis correctly
handles selections that include proline residues.

:issue:`2701`

Fix bug in entropy calculation in gmx anaeig
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

When gmx anaeig received an inconsistent number of atoms and
eigenvectors (fewer eigenvectors than three times the number of
atoms) the entropy calculations would use uninitialized values.

:issue:`2668`

Fixes to improve portability
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Miscellaneous
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixed an issue where the log file could sometimes report an incorrect
initial dynamic load balancing state

:issue:`2631`

Fix Bromine parameters in amber forcefield files
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The forcefield entries for Bromine and Iron were missing the actual values to define
sigma and epsilon. The proper values have been included from parm99.dat for Bromine.
As Iron has no corresponding parameters, the entry has been removed.

:issue:`2711`

Made normal-mode analysis work for more than one molecule
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixed an issue where normal mode analysis would only consider
the first copy of each molecule in a system. Also fixed issues
with vsites or shells in normal modes.

:issue:`2720`

Disallow rerun using same filename as output file
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

When using identical filenames for ``-rerun`` a cryptic error was thrown because
the same file would be used for reading and writing. Now :ref:`mdrun <gmx mdrun>`
will give a helpful error message to get around this.

:issue:`2634`

Fix issue when building |Gromacs| without TNG
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Some compiler errors have been resolved that could show when building
|Gromacs| without TNG support enabled.

