GROMACS 2025.5 release notes
----------------------------

This version was released on TODO, 2025. These release notes
document the changes that have taken place in |Gromacs| since the
previous 2025.4 version, to fix known issues. It also incorporates all
fixes made in version 2024.6 and earlier, which you can find described
in the :ref:`release-notes`.

.. Note to developers!
   Please use """"""" to underline the individual entries for fixed issues in the subfolders,
   otherwise the formatting on the webpage is messed up.
   Also, please use the syntax :issue:`number` to reference issues on GitLab, without
   a space between the colon and number!

Fixes where mdrun could behave incorrectly
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixed missing non-bonded interactions with direct halo communication
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

When using the experimental direct halo communication feature combined with 8-wide SIMD
non-bonded kernels and OpenMP threading, non-bonded interactions could be missing.

:issue:`5509`

Prevent incorrect energy accumulation with ``GMX_ENABLE_NBNXM_CPU_VECTORIZATION``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

When building with the experimental ``-DGMX_ENABLE_NBNXM_CPU_VECTORIZATION=on``
flag for RISC-V vector unit and using multiple energy groups, the reported short-range
non-bonded energy could have been incorrect.

:issue:`5534`

Fixes for ``gmx`` tools
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixes that affect portability
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixed compilation of tests on FreeBSD
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If incompatible versions of GoogleTest and GoogleMock can be found in system include
directories, the build process could in some cases use their headers and later fail
during linking. This release includes a workaround that ensures that GROMACS-supplied
versions of those libraries are always picked up before the system versions.

:issue:`5141`

Miscellaneous
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

