.TH "demux" "1" "13 Oct 2008" "GROMACS suite, Version 4.0"
.SH NAME
demux \- Convert XPLOR distance restraints to Gromacs format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3demux\fP
.B "md0.log "
.B "extra "
.SH DESCRIPTION
If you would like to make your trajectories continuous again you can use
.B demux
to read your md0.log file (you can
concatenate several if necessary) and produce a few output files. One of these
is a .xvg file (\fIreplica_ndx.xvg\fR) that can be passed to 
.BR trjcat(1)
along with the
original trajectory files, in order to produce continuous trajectories. The
other file (\fIreplica_temp.xvg\fR) contains the temperatures for each replica,
starting at the original temperature. So if your replica of interest starts at,
say, 300 K, you can follow its trajectory through temperature space. It would
be interesting to add some functionality to make histograms of temperature
distributions for each replica, which according to most authors, should be
flat. The demuxed trajectories can be used with
.BR g_kinetics(1)
to obtain protein folding kinetics from REMD trajectories.

.SH OPTIONS
.B md0.log
Log file of the trajectory run you wish to make continuous.  Multiple files can
be appended together.

.B extra
Number of times each entry in the log file will be copied.  (Integer)

.SH LIMITATIONS
If your exchange was every N ps and you saved every M ps you can make for
the missing frames by setting \fBextra\fR to (N/M - 1). If N/M is not integer,
you're out of luck and you will not be able to demux your trajectories at all.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gromacs (7),
.BR trjcat (1),
.BR g_kinetics (1),
.I <http://wiki.gromacs.org/index.php/REMD>
