.TH ehole 1 "Thu 16 Oct 2008"
.SH NAME
ehole
.B VERSION 4.0_rc1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3ehole\fP
.BI "-g" " ehole.log "
.BI "-sigel" " sigel.dat "
.BI "-sigin" " siginel.dat "
.BI "-eloss" " eloss.dat "
.BI "-qtrans" " qtrans.dat "
.BI "-band" " band-ener.dat "
.BI "-thetael" " theta-el.dat "
.BI "-o" " ehole.pdb "
.BI "-histo" " histo.xvg "
.BI "-radius" " radius.xvg "
.BI "-gyrate" " gyrate.xvg "
.BI "-mfp" " mfp.xvg "
.BI "-nion" " nion.xvg "
.BI "-ener" " ener.xvg "
.BI "-[no]h" ""
.BI "-nice" " int "
.BI "-[no]xvgr" ""
.BI "-maxparticle" " int "
.BI "-maxstep" " int "
.BI "-nsim" " int "
.BI "-nsave" " int "
.BI "-nana" " int "
.BI "-seed" " int "
.BI "-dt" " real "
.BI "-rho" " real "
.BI "-matom" " real "
.BI "-fermi" " real "
.BI "-gap" " real "
.BI "-auger" " real "
.BI "-dx" " real "
.BI "-[no]test" ""
.BI "-[no]force" ""
.BI "-[no]hole" ""
.BI "-[no]scatter" ""
.BI "-nevent" " int "
.BI "-evdist" " real "
.BI "-size" " real "
.SH DESCRIPTION
ehole performs a molecular dynamics simulation of electrons and holes
.SH FILES
.BI "-g" " ehole.log" 
.B Output
 Log file 

.BI "-sigel" " sigel.dat" 
.B Input
 Generic data file 

.BI "-sigin" " siginel.dat" 
.B Input
 Generic data file 

.BI "-eloss" " eloss.dat" 
.B Input
 Generic data file 

.BI "-qtrans" " qtrans.dat" 
.B Input
 Generic data file 

.BI "-band" " band-ener.dat" 
.B Input
 Generic data file 

.BI "-thetael" " theta-el.dat" 
.B Input
 Generic data file 

.BI "-o" " ehole.pdb" 
.B Output
 Protein data bank file 

.BI "-histo" " histo.xvg" 
.B Output
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "-radius" " radius.xvg" 
.B Output
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "-gyrate" " gyrate.xvg" 
.B Output
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "-mfp" " mfp.xvg" 
.B Output
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "-nion" " nion.xvg" 
.B Output
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "-ener" " ener.xvg" 
.B Output
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.BI "-[no]h"  "no    "
 Print help info and quit

.BI "-nice"  " int" " 19" 
 Set the nicelevel

.BI "-[no]xvgr"  "yes   "
 Add specific codes (legends etc.) in the output xvg files for the xmgrace program

.BI "-maxparticle"  " int" " 100" 
 Maximum number of particles

.BI "-maxstep"  " int" " 100000" 
 Number of integration steps

.BI "-nsim"  " int" " 1" 
 Number of independent simulations writing to different output files

.BI "-nsave"  " int" " 1" 
 Number of steps after which to save output. 0 means only when particles created. Final step is always written.

.BI "-nana"  " int" " 1" 
 Number of steps after which to do analysis.

.BI "-seed"  " int" " 1993" 
 Random seed

.BI "-dt"  " real" " 1e-05 " 
 Integration time step (ps)

.BI "-rho"  " real" " 3.51  " 
 Density of the sample (kg/l). Default is for Diamond

.BI "-matom"  " real" " 12.011" 
 Mass (a.m.u.) of the atom in the solid. Default is C

.BI "-fermi"  " real" " 28.7  " 
 Fermi energy (eV) of the sample. Default is for Diamond

.BI "-gap"  " real" " 5.46  " 
 Band gap energy (eV) of the sample. Default is for Diamond

.BI "-auger"  " real" " 250   " 
 Impact energy (eV) of first electron

.BI "-dx"  " real" " 0.05  " 
 Distance between electron and hole when creating a pair

.BI "-[no]test"  "no    "
 Test table aspects of the program rather than running it for real

.BI "-[no]force"  "no    "
 Apply Coulomb/Repulsion forces

.BI "-[no]hole"  "no    "
 Create electron-hole pairs rather than electrons only

.BI "-[no]scatter"  "yes   "
 Do the scattering events

.BI "-nevent"  " int" " 1" 
 Number of initial Auger electrons

.BI "-evdist"  " real" " 10000 " 
 Average distance (A) between initial electronss

.BI "-size"  " real" " 0     " 
 Size of the spherical system. If 0, then it is infinite

