.TH ffscan 1 "Mon 29 Aug 2005"
.SH NAME
ffscan
.B VERSION 3.3_beta_20050823
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3ffscan\fP
.BI "-s" " topol.tpr "
.BI "-g" " md.log "
.BI "-table" " table.xvg "
.BI "-parm" " params.dat "
.BI "-ga" " genalg.dat "
.BI "-c" " junk.gro "
.BI "-e" " junk.edr "
.BI "-o" " junk.trr "
.BI "-[no]h" ""
.BI "-nice" " int "
.BI "-[no]xvgr" ""
.BI "-tol" " real "
.BI "-fmax" " real "
.BI "-[no]comb" ""
.BI "-npow" " real "
.BI "-[no]logeps" ""
.BI "-[no]v" ""
.BI "-epot" " real "
.BI "-fepot" " real "
.BI "-pres" " real "
.BI "-fpres" " real "
.BI "-fmsf" " real "
.BI "-molsize" " int "
.BI "-nmol" " int "
.SH DESCRIPTION
The ffscan program performs a single point energy and force calculation
in which the force field is modified. This way a range of parameters can
be changed and tested for reproduction of e.g. quantum chemical or
experimental data. A grid scan over the parameters is done as specified
using command line arguments. All parameters that reproduce the energy
within a given absolute tolerance are printed to a log file.


Obviously polarizable models can be used, and shell optimisation is
performed if necessary. Also, like in mdrun table functions can be used
for user defined potential functions.


If the option -ga with appropriate file is passed, a genetic algorithm will
be used rather than a grid scan.
.SH FILES
.BI "-s" " topol.tpr" 
.B Input
 Generic run input: tpr tpb tpa xml 

.BI "-g" " md.log" 
.B Output
 Log file 

.BI "-table" " table.xvg" 
.B Input, Opt.
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "-parm" " params.dat" 
.B Input
 Generic data file 

.BI "-ga" " genalg.dat" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Generic data file 

.BI "-c" " junk.gro" 
.B Output
 Coordinate file in Gromos-87 format 

.BI "-e" " junk.edr" 
.B Output
 Generic energy: edr ene 

.BI "-o" " junk.trr" 
.B Output
 Full precision trajectory: trr trj 

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.BI "-[no]h"  "    no"
 Print help info and quit

.BI "-nice"  " int" " 19" 
 Set the nicelevel

.BI "-[no]xvgr"  "   yes"
 Add specific codes (legends etc.) in the output xvg files for the xmgrace program

.BI "-tol"  " real" "    0.1" 
 Energy tolerance (kJ/mol) (zero means everything is printed)

.BI "-fmax"  " real" "    100" 
 Force tolerance (zero means everything is printed)

.BI "-[no]comb"  "   yes"
 Use combination rules

.BI "-npow"  " real" "     12" 
 Power for LJ in case of table use

.BI "-[no]logeps"  "    no"
 Use a logarithmic scale for epsilon

.BI "-[no]v"  "    no"
 Be loud and noisy

.BI "-epot"  " real" "      0" 
 Target energy (kJ/mol)

.BI "-fepot"  " real" "      1" 
 Factor for scaling energy violations (0 turns energy contribution off)

.BI "-pres"  " real" "      1" 
 Value for reference pressure

.BI "-fpres"  " real" "    0.1" 
 Factor for scaling pressure violations (0 turns pressure contribution off)

.BI "-fmsf"  " real" "    0.1" 
 Factor for scaling mean square force violations (0 turns MSF contribution off)

.BI "-molsize"  " int" " 1" 
 Number of atoms per molecule

.BI "-nmol"  " int" " 1" 
 Number of molecules (Epot is divided by this value!)

