.TH g_kinetics 1 "Fri 19 Apr 2013" "" "GROMACS suite, VERSION 4.5.7"
.SH NAME
g_kinetics - analyzes kinetic constants from properties based on the Eyring model

.B VERSION 4.5.7
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3g_kinetics\fP
.BI "\-f" " temp.xvg "
.BI "\-d" " data.xvg "
.BI "\-d2" " data2.xvg "
.BI "\-o" " ft_all.xvg "
.BI "\-o2" " it_all.xvg "
.BI "\-o3" " ft_repl.xvg "
.BI "\-ee" " err_est.xvg "
.BI "\-g" " remd.log "
.BI "\-m" " melt.xvg "
.BI "\-[no]h" ""
.BI "\-[no]version" ""
.BI "\-nice" " int "
.BI "\-tu" " enum "
.BI "\-[no]w" ""
.BI "\-xvg" " enum "
.BI "\-[no]time" ""
.BI "\-b" " real "
.BI "\-e" " real "
.BI "\-bfit" " real "
.BI "\-efit" " real "
.BI "\-T" " real "
.BI "\-n" " int "
.BI "\-cut" " real "
.BI "\-ucut" " real "
.BI "\-euf" " real "
.BI "\-efu" " real "
.BI "\-ei" " real "
.BI "\-maxiter" " int "
.BI "\-[no]back" ""
.BI "\-tol" " real "
.BI "\-skip" " int "
.BI "\-[no]split" ""
.BI "\-[no]sum" ""
.BI "\-[no]discrete" ""
.BI "\-mult" " int "
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&\fB g_kinetics\fR reads two \fB .xvg\fR files, each one containing data for N replicas.
\&The first file contains the temperature of each replica at each timestep,
\&and the second contains real values that can be interpreted as
\&an indicator for folding. If the value in the file is larger than
\&the cutoff it is taken to be unfolded and the other way around.


\&From these data an estimate of the forward and backward rate constants
\&for folding is made at a reference temperature. In addition,
\&a theoretical melting curve and free energy as a function of temperature
\&are printed in an \fB .xvg\fR file.


\&The user can give a max value to be regarded as intermediate
\&(\fB \-ucut\fR), which, when given will trigger the use of an intermediate state
\&in the algorithm to be defined as those structures that have
\&cutoff  DATA  ucut. Structures with DATA values larger than ucut will
\&not be regarded as potential folders. In this case 8 parameters are optimized.


\&The average fraction foled is printed in an \fB .xvg\fR file together with the fit to it.
\&If an intermediate is used a further file will show the build of the intermediate and the fit to that process.


\&The program can also be used with continuous variables (by setting
\&\fB \-nodiscrete\fR). In this case kinetics of other processes can be
\&studied. This is very much a work in progress and hence the manual
\&(this information) is lagging behind somewhat.


\&In order to compile this program you need access to the GNU
\&scientific library.
.SH FILES
.BI "\-f" " temp.xvg" 
.B Input
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "\-d" " data.xvg" 
.B Input
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "\-d2" " data2.xvg" 
.B Input, Opt.
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "\-o" " ft_all.xvg" 
.B Output
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "\-o2" " it_all.xvg" 
.B Output, Opt.
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "\-o3" " ft_repl.xvg" 
.B Output, Opt.
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "\-ee" " err_est.xvg" 
.B Output, Opt.
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "\-g" " remd.log" 
.B Output
 Log file 

.BI "\-m" " melt.xvg" 
.B Output
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.BI "\-[no]h"  "no    "
 Print help info and quit

.BI "\-[no]version"  "no    "
 Print version info and quit

.BI "\-nice"  " int" " 19" 
 Set the nicelevel

.BI "\-tu"  " enum" " ps" 
 Time unit: \fB fs\fR, \fB ps\fR, \fB ns\fR, \fB us\fR, \fB ms\fR or \fB s\fR

.BI "\-[no]w"  "no    "
 View output \fB .xvg\fR, \fB .xpm\fR, \fB .eps\fR and \fB .pdb\fR files

.BI "\-xvg"  " enum" " xmgrace" 
 xvg plot formatting: \fB xmgrace\fR, \fB xmgr\fR or \fB none\fR

.BI "\-[no]time"  "yes   "
 Expect a time in the input

.BI "\-b"  " real" " 0     " 
 First time to read from set

.BI "\-e"  " real" " 0     " 
 Last time to read from set

.BI "\-bfit"  " real" " \-1    " 
 Time to start the fit from

.BI "\-efit"  " real" " \-1    " 
 Time to end the fit

.BI "\-T"  " real" " 298.15" 
 Reference temperature for computing rate constants

.BI "\-n"  " int" " 1" 
 Read data for this number of replicas. Only necessary when files are written in xmgrace format using @type and & as delimiters.

.BI "\-cut"  " real" " 0.2   " 
 Cut\-off (max) value for regarding a structure as folded

.BI "\-ucut"  " real" " 0     " 
 Cut\-off (max) value for regarding a structure as intermediate (if not folded)

.BI "\-euf"  " real" " 10    " 
 Initial guess for energy of activation for folding (kJ/mol)

.BI "\-efu"  " real" " 30    " 
 Initial guess for energy of activation for unfolding (kJ/mol)

.BI "\-ei"  " real" " 10    " 
 Initial guess for energy of activation for intermediates (kJ/mol)

.BI "\-maxiter"  " int" " 100" 
 Max number of iterations

.BI "\-[no]back"  "yes   "
 Take the back reaction into account

.BI "\-tol"  " real" " 0.001 " 
 Absolute tolerance for convergence of the Nelder and Mead simplex algorithm

.BI "\-skip"  " int" " 0" 
 Skip points in the output \fB .xvg\fR file

.BI "\-[no]split"  "yes   "
 Estimate error by splitting the number of replicas in two and refitting

.BI "\-[no]sum"  "yes   "
 Average folding before computing chi2

.BI "\-[no]discrete"  "yes   "
 Use a discrete folding criterion (F \- U) or a continuous one

.BI "\-mult"  " int" " 1" 
 Factor to multiply the data with before discretization

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gromacs(7)

More information about \fBGROMACS\fR is available at <\fIhttp://www.gromacs.org/\fR>.
