.TH g_sdf_d 1 "Thu 16 Oct 2008"
.SH NAME
g_sdf_d
.B VERSION 3.3.99_development_20071104
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3g_sdf_d\fP
.BI "-f" " traj.xtc "
.BI "-n" " index.ndx "
.BI "-s" " topol.tpr "
.BI "-o" " gom_plt.dat "
.BI "-r" " refmol.gro "
.BI "-[no]h" ""
.BI "-nice" " int "
.BI "-b" " time "
.BI "-e" " time "
.BI "-dt" " time "
.BI "-mode" " int "
.BI "-triangle" " vector "
.BI "-dtri" " vector "
.BI "-bin" " real "
.BI "-grid" " vector "
.SH DESCRIPTION
g_sdf calculates the spatial distribution function (SDF) of a set of atoms
within a coordinate system defined by three atoms. There is single body, 
two body and three body SDF implemented (select with option -mode). 
In the single body case the local coordinate system is defined by using
a triple of atoms from one single molecule, for the two and three body case
the configurations are dynamically searched complexes of two or three
molecules (or residues) meeting certain distance consitions (see below).


The program needs a trajectory, a GROMACS run input file and an index 
file to work. 
You have to setup 4 groups in the index file before using g_sdf: 


The first three groups are used to define the SDF coordinate system.
The programm will dynamically generate the atom tripels according to 
the selected -mode: 
In -mode 1 the triples will be just the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, ... atoms from 
groups 1, 2 and 3. Hence the nth entries in groups 1, 2 and 3 must be from the
same residue. In -mode 2 the triples will be 1st, 2nd, 3rd, ... atoms from
groups 1 and 2 (with the nth entries in groups 1 and 2 having the same res-id).
For each pair from groups 1 and 2  group 3 is searched for an atom meeting the
distance conditions set with -triangle and -dtri relative to atoms 1 and 2. In
-mode 3 for each atom in group 1 group 2 is searched for an atom meeting the
distance condition and if a pair is found group 3 is searched for an atom
meeting the further conditions. The triple will only be used if all three atoms
have different res-id's.


The local coordinate system is always defined using the following scheme:
Atom 1 will be used as the point of origin for the SDF. Atom 1 and 2 will define the principle axis (Z) of the coordinate system.
The other two axis will be defined inplane (Y) and normal (X) to the plane through
Atoms 1, 2 and 3. The fourth group
contains the atoms for which the SDF will be evaluated.


For -mode 2 and 3 you have to define the distance conditions for the 
2 resp. 3 molecule complexes to be searched for using -triangle and -dtri.


The SDF will be sampled in cartesian coordinates.
Use '-grid x y z' to define the size of the SDF grid around the 
reference molecule. 
The Volume of the SDF grid will be V=x*y*z (nm3). Use -bin to set the binwidth for grid.


The output will be a binary 3D-grid file (gom_plt.dat) in the .plt format that can be be
read directly by gOpenMol. 
The option -r will generate a .gro file with the reference molecule(s) transfered to
the SDF coordinate system. Load this file into gOpenMol and display the
SDF as a contour plot (see http://www.csc.fi/gopenmol/index.phtml for 
further documentation). 


For further information about SDF's have a look at: A. Vishnyakov, JPC A, 105,
2001, 1702 and the references cited within.
.SH FILES
.BI "-f" " traj.xtc" 
.B Input
 Generic trajectory: xtc trr trj gro g96 pdb 

.BI "-n" " index.ndx" 
.B Input
 Index file 

.BI "-s" " topol.tpr" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Structure+mass(db): tpr tpb tpa gro g96 pdb xml 

.BI "-o" " gom_plt.dat" 
.B Output
 Generic data file 

.BI "-r" " refmol.gro" 
.B Output, Opt.
 Generic structure: gro g96 pdb xml 

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.BI "-[no]h"  "no    "
 Print help info and quit

.BI "-nice"  " int" " 19" 
 Set the nicelevel

.BI "-b"  " time" " 0     " 
 First frame (ps) to read from trajectory

.BI "-e"  " time" " 0     " 
 Last frame (ps) to read from trajectory

.BI "-dt"  " time" " 0     " 
 Only use frame when t MOD dt = first time (ps)

.BI "-mode"  " int" " 1" 
 SDF in [1,2,3] particle mode

.BI "-triangle"  " vector" " 0 0 0" 
 r(1,3), r(2,3), r(1,2)

.BI "-dtri"  " vector" " 0.03 0.03 0.03" 
 dr(1,3), dr(2,3), dr(1,2)

.BI "-bin"  " real" " 0.05  " 
 Binwidth for the 3D-grid (nm)

.BI "-grid"  " vector" " 1 1 1" 
 Size of the 3D-grid (nm,nm,nm)

