.TH g_spol_d 1 "Thu 16 Oct 2008"
.SH NAME
g_spol_d
.B VERSION 3.3.99_development_20071104
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3g_spol_d\fP
.BI "-f" " traj.xtc "
.BI "-s" " topol.tpr "
.BI "-n" " index.ndx "
.BI "-o" " scdist.xvg "
.BI "-[no]h" ""
.BI "-nice" " int "
.BI "-b" " time "
.BI "-e" " time "
.BI "-dt" " time "
.BI "-[no]w" ""
.BI "-[no]xvgr" ""
.BI "-[no]com" ""
.BI "-[no]pbc" ""
.BI "-refat" " int "
.BI "-rmin" " real "
.BI "-rmax" " real "
.BI "-dip" " real "
.BI "-bw" " real "
.SH DESCRIPTION
g_spol analyzes dipoles around a solute; it is especially useful
for polarizable water. A group of reference atoms, or a center
of mass reference (option 
.B -com
) and a group of solvent
atoms is required. The program splits the group of solvent atoms
into molecules. For each solvent molecule the distance to the
closest atom in reference group or to the COM is determined.
A cumulative distribution of these distances is plotted.
For each distance between 
.B -rmin
and 
.B -rmax

the inner product of the distance vector
and the dipole of the solvent molecule is determined.
The average of these dipole components is printed.
The same is done for the polarization, where the average dipole is
subtracted from the instantaneous dipole. The magnitude of the average
dipole is set with the option 
.B -dip
, the direction is defined
by the vector from the first atom in the selected solvent group
to the midpoint between the second and the third atom.
.SH FILES
.BI "-f" " traj.xtc" 
.B Input
 Generic trajectory: xtc trr trj gro g96 pdb 

.BI "-s" " topol.tpr" 
.B Input
 Generic run input: tpr tpb tpa xml 

.BI "-n" " index.ndx" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Index file 

.BI "-o" " scdist.xvg" 
.B Output
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.BI "-[no]h"  "no    "
 Print help info and quit

.BI "-nice"  " int" " 19" 
 Set the nicelevel

.BI "-b"  " time" " 0     " 
 First frame (ps) to read from trajectory

.BI "-e"  " time" " 0     " 
 Last frame (ps) to read from trajectory

.BI "-dt"  " time" " 0     " 
 Only use frame when t MOD dt = first time (ps)

.BI "-[no]w"  "no    "
 View output xvg, xpm, eps and pdb files

.BI "-[no]xvgr"  "yes   "
 Add specific codes (legends etc.) in the output xvg files for the xmgrace program

.BI "-[no]com"  "no    "
 Use the center of mass as the reference postion

.BI "-[no]pbc"  "no    "
 Check PBC for the center of mass calculation. Only necessary when your reference group consists of several molecules.

.BI "-refat"  " int" " 1" 
 The reference atom of the solvent molecule

.BI "-rmin"  " real" " 0     " 
 Maximum distance (nm)

.BI "-rmax"  " real" " 0.32  " 
 Maximum distance (nm)

.BI "-dip"  " real" " 0     " 
 The average dipole (D)

.BI "-bw"  " real" " 0.01  " 
 The bin width

