.TH gen_table 1 "Thu 16 Oct 2008"
.SH NAME
gen_table - generate tables for use by mdrun

.B VERSION 4.0_rc1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3gen_table\fP
.BI "-o" " table.xvg "
.BI "-[no]h" ""
.BI "-nice" " int "
.BI "-b" " time "
.BI "-e" " time "
.BI "-dt" " time "
.BI "-[no]w" ""
.BI "-[no]xvgr" ""
.BI "-el" " enum "
.BI "-rc" " real "
.BI "-rtol" " real "
.BI "-xi" " real "
.BI "-xir" " real "
.BI "-z1" " real "
.BI "-z2" " real "
.BI "-nrow1" " int "
.BI "-nrow2" " int "
.BI "-m" " enum "
.BI "-resol" " int "
.BI "-delta" " real "
.BI "-efac" " real "
.BI "-nrep" " int "
.BI "-ndisp" " int "
.SH DESCRIPTION
gen_table generates tables for mdrun for use with the USER defined
potentials. Note that the format has been update for higher
accuracy in the forces starting with version 4.0. Using older
tables with 4.0 will silently crash your simulations, as will
using new tables with an older GROMACS version. This is because in the
old version the second derevative of the potential was specified
whereas in the new version the first derivative of the potential
is used instead.


For Slater interactions four parameters must be passed: the 1/Width
and the row number of the element. The interactions are computed analytically
which may be slow due to the fact that arbitraray precision arithmetic is
needed. If the width of one of the Slater is zero a Nucleus-Slater interaction
will be generated.
.SH FILES
.BI "-o" " table.xvg" 
.B Output
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.BI "-[no]h"  "no    "
 Print help info and quit

.BI "-nice"  " int" " 19" 
 Set the nicelevel

.BI "-b"  " time" " 0     " 
 First frame (ps) to read from trajectory

.BI "-e"  " time" " 0     " 
 Last frame (ps) to read from trajectory

.BI "-dt"  " time" " 0     " 
 Only use frame when t MOD dt = first time (ps)

.BI "-[no]w"  "no    "
 View output xvg, xpm, eps and pdb files

.BI "-[no]xvgr"  "yes   "
 Add specific codes (legends etc.) in the output xvg files for the xmgrace program

.BI "-el"  " enum" " cut" 
 Electrostatics type: cut, rf or pme: 
.B cut
, 
.B rf
or 
.B pme


.BI "-rc"  " real" " 0.9   " 
 Cut-off required for rf or pme

.BI "-rtol"  " real" " 1e-05 " 
 Ewald tolerance required for pme

.BI "-xi"  " real" " 0.15  " 
 Width of the Gaussian diffuse charge of the G&G model

.BI "-xir"  " real" " 0.0615" 
 Width of erfc(z)/z repulsion of the G&G model (z=0.5 rOO/xir)

.BI "-z1"  " real" " 20    " 
 1/Width of the first Slater charge (unit 1/nm)

.BI "-z2"  " real" " 20    " 
 1/Width of the second Slater charge (unit 1/nm)

.BI "-nrow1"  " int" " 1" 
 Row number for the first Slater charge

.BI "-nrow2"  " int" " 1" 
 Row number for the first Slater charge

.BI "-m"  " enum" " ljc" 
 Model for the tables: 
.B ljc
, 
.B gg
, 
.B guillot2001a
or 
.B slater


.BI "-resol"  " int" " 500" 
 Resolution of the table (points per nm)

.BI "-delta"  " real" " 0     " 
 Displacement in the Coulomb functions (nm), used as 1/(r+delta). Only for hard wall potential.

.BI "-efac"  " real" " 500   " 
 Number indicating the steepness of the hardwall potential.

.BI "-nrep"  " int" " 12" 
 Power for the repulsion potential (with model AB1 or maaren)

.BI "-ndisp"  " int" " 6" 
 Power for the dispersion potential (with model AB1 or maaren)

