.TH genpr 1 "Mon 29 Aug 2005"
.SH NAME
genpr
.B VERSION 3.3_beta_20050823
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3genpr\fP
.BI "-f" " conf.gro "
.BI "-n" " index.ndx "
.BI "-o" " posre.itp "
.BI "-of" " freeze.ndx "
.BI "-[no]h" ""
.BI "-nice" " int "
.BI "-fc" " vector "
.BI "-freeze" " real "
.SH DESCRIPTION
genpr produces an include file for a topology containing
a list of atom numbers and three force constants for the
X, Y and Z direction. A single isotropic force constant may
be given on the command line instead of three components.


WARNING: genpr only works for the first molecule.
Position restraints are interactions within molecules, therefore
they should be included within the correct 
.B [ moleculetype ]

block in the topology. Since the atom numbers in every moleculetype
in the topology start at 1 and the numbers in the input file for
genpr number consecutively from 1, genpr will only produce a useful
file for the first molecule.


The -of option produces an index file that can be used for
freezing atoms. In this case the input file must be a pdb file.
.SH FILES
.BI "-f" " conf.gro" 
.B Input
 Generic structure: gro g96 pdb tpr tpb tpa xml 

.BI "-n" " index.ndx" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Index file 

.BI "-o" " posre.itp" 
.B Output
 Include file for topology 

.BI "-of" " freeze.ndx" 
.B Output, Opt.
 Index file 

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.BI "-[no]h"  "    no"
 Print help info and quit

.BI "-nice"  " int" " 0" 
 Set the nicelevel

.BI "-fc"  " vector" " 1000 1000 1000" 
 force constants (kJ mol-1 nm-2)

.BI "-freeze"  " real" "      0" 
 if the -of option or this one is given an index file will be written containing atom numbers of all atoms that have a B-factor less than the level given here

