.TH gmxdump 1 "Fri 18 Jan 2013" "" "GROMACS suite, VERSION 4.5.6"
.SH NAME
gmxdump - makes binary files human readable

.B VERSION 4.5.6
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3gmxdump\fP
.BI "\-s" " topol.tpr "
.BI "\-f" " traj.xtc "
.BI "\-e" " ener.edr "
.BI "\-cp" " state.cpt "
.BI "\-p" " topol.top "
.BI "\-mtx" " hessian.mtx "
.BI "\-om" " grompp.mdp "
.BI "\-[no]h" ""
.BI "\-[no]version" ""
.BI "\-nice" " int "
.BI "\-[no]nr" ""
.BI "\-[no]sys" ""
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&\fB gmxdump\fR reads a run input file (\fB .tpa\fR/\fB .tpr\fR/\fB .tpb\fR),
\&a trajectory (\fB .trj\fR/\fB .trr\fR/\fB .xtc\fR), an energy
\&file (\fB .ene\fR/\fB .edr\fR), or a checkpoint file (\fB .cpt\fR)
\&and prints that to standard output in a readable format.
\&This program is essential for checking your run input file in case of
\&problems.


\&The program can also preprocess a topology to help finding problems.
\&Note that currently setting \fB GMXLIB\fR is the only way to customize
\&directories used for searching include files.
.SH FILES
.BI "\-s" " topol.tpr" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Run input file: tpr tpb tpa 

.BI "\-f" " traj.xtc" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Trajectory: xtc trr trj gro g96 pdb cpt 

.BI "\-e" " ener.edr" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Energy file 

.BI "\-cp" " state.cpt" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Checkpoint file 

.BI "\-p" " topol.top" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Topology file 

.BI "\-mtx" " hessian.mtx" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Hessian matrix 

.BI "\-om" " grompp.mdp" 
.B Output, Opt.
 grompp input file with MD parameters 

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.BI "\-[no]h"  "no    "
 Print help info and quit

.BI "\-[no]version"  "no    "
 Print version info and quit

.BI "\-nice"  " int" " 0" 
 Set the nicelevel

.BI "\-[no]nr"  "yes   "
 Show index numbers in output (leaving them out makes comparison easier, but creates a useless topology)

.BI "\-[no]sys"  "no    "
 List the atoms and bonded interactions for the whole system instead of for each molecule type

.SH KNOWN PROBLEMS
\- Position restraint output from \-sys \-s is broken

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gromacs(7)

More information about \fBGROMACS\fR is available at <\fIhttp://www.gromacs.org/\fR>.
