.TH grompp 1 "Mon 29 Aug 2005"
.SH NAME
grompp
.B VERSION 3.3_beta_20050823
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3grompp\fP
.BI "-f" " grompp.mdp "
.BI "-po" " mdout.mdp "
.BI "-c" " conf.gro "
.BI "-r" " conf.gro "
.BI "-rb" " conf.gro "
.BI "-n" " index.ndx "
.BI "-deshuf" " deshuf.ndx "
.BI "-p" " topol.top "
.BI "-pp" " processed.top "
.BI "-o" " topol.tpr "
.BI "-t" " traj.trr "
.BI "-e" " ener.edr "
.BI "-[no]h" ""
.BI "-nice" " int "
.BI "-[no]v" ""
.BI "-time" " real "
.BI "-np" " int "
.BI "-[no]shuffle" ""
.BI "-[no]sort" ""
.BI "-[no]rmvsbds" ""
.BI "-load" " string "
.BI "-maxwarn" " int "
.BI "-[no]check14" ""
.BI "-[no]renum" ""
.SH DESCRIPTION
The gromacs preprocessor
reads a molecular topology file, checks the validity of the
file, expands the topology from a molecular description to an atomic
description. The topology file contains information about
molecule types and the number of molecules, the preprocessor
copies each molecule as needed. 
There is no limitation on the number of molecule types. 
Bonds and bond-angles can be converted into constraints, separately
for hydrogens and heavy atoms.
Then a coordinate file is read and velocities can be generated
from a Maxwellian distribution if requested.
grompp also reads parameters for the mdrun 
(eg. number of MD steps, time step, cut-off), and others such as
NEMD parameters, which are corrected so that the net acceleration
is zero.
Eventually a binary file is produced that can serve as the sole input
file for the MD program.


grompp uses the atom names from the topology file. The atom names
in the coordinate file (option 
.B -c
) are only read to generate
warnings when they do not match the atom names in the topology.
Note that the atom names are irrelevant for the simulation as
only the atom types are used for generating interaction parameters.


grompp calls the c-preprocessor to resolve includes, macros 
etcetera. To specify a macro-preprocessor other than /lib/cpp 
(such as m4)
you can put a line in your parameter file specifying the path
to that cpp. Specifying 
.B -pp
will get the pre-processed
topology file written out.


If your system does not have a c-preprocessor, you can still
use grompp, but you do not have access to the features 
from the cpp. Command line options to the c-preprocessor can be given
in the 
.B .mdp
file. See your local manual (man cpp).


When using position restraints a file with restraint coordinates
can be supplied with 
.B -r
, otherwise restraining will be done
with respect to the conformation from the 
.B -c
option.
For free energy calculation the the coordinates for the B topology
can be supplied with 
.B -rb
, otherwise they will be equal to
those of the A topology.


Starting coordinates can be read from trajectory with 
.B -t
.
The last frame with coordinates and velocities will be read,
unless the 
.B -time
option is used.
Note that these velocities will not be used when 
.B gen_vel = yes

in your 
.B .mdp
file. An energy file can be supplied with

.B -e
to have exact restarts when using pressure and/or
Nose-Hoover temperature coupling. For an exact restart do not forget
to turn off velocity generation and turn on unconstrained starting
when constraints are present in the system.
If you want to continue a crashed run, it is
easier to use 
.B tpbconv
.


When preparing an input file for parallel 
.B mdrun
it may
be advantageous to partition the simulation system over the
nodes in a way in which each node has a similar amount of
work. The -shuffle option does just that. For a single protein
in water this does not make a difference, however for a system where
you have many copies of different molecules  (e.g. liquid mixture
or membrane/water system) the option is definitely a must.
The output trajectories will also be shuffled. 
.B grompp
writes
an index file (option 
.B -deshuf
) which can be used with

.B trjconv
to deshuffle the trajectories.


A further optimization for parallel systems is the 
.B -sort

option which sorts molecules according to coordinates. This must
always be used in conjunction with 
.B -shuffle
, however
sorting also works when you have only one molecule type.


Using the 
.B -morse
option grompp can convert the harmonic bonds
in your topology to morse potentials. This makes it possible to break
bonds. For this option to work you need an extra file in your $GMXLIB
with dissociation energy. Use the -debug option to get more information
on the workings of this option (look for MORSE in the grompp.log file
using less or something like that).


By default all bonded interactions which have constant energy due to
virtual site constructions will be removed. If this constant energy is
not zero, this will result in a shift in the total energy. All bonded
interactions can be kept by turning off 
.B -rmvsbds
. Additionally,
all constraints for distances which will be constant anyway because
of virtual site constructions will be removed. If any constraints remain
which involve virtual sites, a fatal error will result.

To verify your run input file, please make notice of all warnings
on the screen, and correct where necessary. Do also look at the contents
of the 
.B mdout.mdp
file, this contains comment lines, as well as
the input that 
.B grompp
has read. If in doubt you can start grompp
with the 
.B -debug
option which will give you more information
in a file called grompp.log (along with real debug info). Finally, you
can see the contents of the run input file with the 
.B gmxdump

program.
.SH FILES
.BI "-f" " grompp.mdp" 
.B Input, Opt.
 grompp input file with MD parameters 

.BI "-po" " mdout.mdp" 
.B Output
 grompp input file with MD parameters 

.BI "-c" " conf.gro" 
.B Input
 Generic structure: gro g96 pdb tpr tpb tpa xml 

.BI "-r" " conf.gro" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Generic structure: gro g96 pdb tpr tpb tpa xml 

.BI "-rb" " conf.gro" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Generic structure: gro g96 pdb tpr tpb tpa xml 

.BI "-n" " index.ndx" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Index file 

.BI "-deshuf" " deshuf.ndx" 
.B Output, Opt.
 Index file 

.BI "-p" " topol.top" 
.B Input
 Topology file 

.BI "-pp" " processed.top" 
.B Output, Opt.
 Topology file 

.BI "-o" " topol.tpr" 
.B Output
 Generic run input: tpr tpb tpa xml 

.BI "-t" " traj.trr" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Full precision trajectory: trr trj 

.BI "-e" " ener.edr" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Generic energy: edr ene 

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.BI "-[no]h"  "    no"
 Print help info and quit

.BI "-nice"  " int" " 0" 
 Set the nicelevel

.BI "-[no]v"  "   yes"
 Be loud and noisy

.BI "-time"  " real" "     -1" 
 Take frame at or first after this time.

.BI "-np"  " int" " 1" 
 Generate statusfile for  nodes

.BI "-[no]shuffle"  "    no"
 Shuffle molecules over nodes

.BI "-[no]sort"  "    no"
 Sort molecules according to X coordinate

.BI "-[no]rmvsbds"  "   yes"
 Remove constant bonded interactions with virtual sites

.BI "-load"  " string" " " 
 Releative load capacity of each node on a parallel machine. Be sure to use quotes around the string, which should contain a number for each node

.BI "-maxwarn"  " int" " 10" 
 Number of warnings after which input processing stops

.BI "-[no]check14"  "    no"
 Remove 1-4 interactions without Van der Waals

.BI "-[no]renum"  "   yes"
 Renumber atomtypes and minimize number of atomtypes

