.TH x2top 1 "Mon 29 Aug 2005"
.SH NAME
x2top
.B VERSION 3.3_beta_20050823
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3x2top\fP
.BI "-f" " conf.gro "
.BI "-o" " out.top "
.BI "-r" " out.rtp "
.BI "-[no]h" ""
.BI "-nice" " int "
.BI "-scale" " real "
.BI "-ff" " string "
.BI "-nexcl" " int "
.BI "-[no]H14" ""
.BI "-[no]alldih" ""
.BI "-[no]remdih" ""
.BI "-[no]pairs" ""
.BI "-name" " string "
.BI "-[no]pbc" ""
.BI "-[no]param" ""
.BI "-[no]round" ""
.BI "-kb" " real "
.BI "-kt" " real "
.BI "-kp" " real "
.SH DESCRIPTION
x2top generates a primitive topology from a coordinate file.
The program assumes all hydrogens are present when defining
the hybridization from the atom name and the number of bonds.
The program can also make an rtp entry, which you can then add
to the rtp database.


When 
.B -param
is set, equilibrium distances and angles
and force constants will be printed in the topology for all
interactions. The equilibrium distances and angles are taken
from the input coordinates, the force constant are set with
command line options.The force fields supported currently are:


G43a1  GROMOS96 43a1 Forcefield (official distribution)


oplsaa OPLS-AA/L all-atom force field (2001 aminoacid dihedrals)


G43b1  GROMOS96 43b1 Vacuum Forcefield (official distribution)


gmx    Gromacs Forcefield (a modified GROMOS87, see manual)


G43a2  GROMOS96 43a2 Forcefield (development) (improved alkane dihedrals)


The corresponding data files can be found in the library directory
with names like ffXXXX.YYY. Check chapter 5 of the manual for more
information about file formats. By default the forcefield selection
is interactive, but you can use the 
.B -ff
option to specify
one of the short names above on the command line instead. In that
case pdb2gmx just looks for the corresponding file.


.SH FILES
.BI "-f" " conf.gro" 
.B Input
 Generic structure: gro g96 pdb tpr tpb tpa xml 

.BI "-o" " out.top" 
.B Output, Opt.
 Topology file 

.BI "-r" " out.rtp" 
.B Output, Opt.
 Residue Type file used by pdb2gmx 

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.BI "-[no]h"  "    no"
 Print help info and quit

.BI "-nice"  " int" " 0" 
 Set the nicelevel

.BI "-scale"  " real" "    1.1" 
 Scaling factor for bonds with unknown atom types relative to atom type O

.BI "-ff"  " string" " select" 
 Select the force field for your simulation.

.BI "-nexcl"  " int" " 3" 
 Number of exclusions

.BI "-[no]H14"  "   yes"
 Use 3rd neighbour interactions for hydrogen atoms

.BI "-[no]alldih"  "    no"
 Generate all proper dihedrals

.BI "-[no]remdih"  "    no"
 Remove dihedrals on the same bond as an improper

.BI "-[no]pairs"  "   yes"
 Output 1-4 interactions (pairs) in topology file

.BI "-name"  " string" " ICE" 
 Name of your molecule

.BI "-[no]pbc"  "   yes"
 Use periodic boundary conditions.

.BI "-[no]param"  "    no"
 Print parameters in the output

.BI "-[no]round"  "   yes"
 Round off measured values

.BI "-kb"  " real" " 400000" 
 Bonded force constant (kJ/mol/nm2)

.BI "-kt"  " real" "    400" 
 Angle force constant (kJ/mol/rad2)

.BI "-kp"  " real" "      5" 
 Dihedral angle force constant (kJ/mol/rad2)

\- The atom type selection is primitive. Virtually no chemical knowledge is used

\- Periodic boundary conditions screw up the bonding

\- No improper dihedrals are generated

\- The atoms to atomtype translation table is incomplete (ffG43a1.n2t file in the $GMXLIB directory). Please extend it and send the results back to the GROMACS crew.

