\Gromacs {#mainpage}
=======

\Gromacs is a versatile package to perform molecular dynamics, i.e. simulate
the Newtonian equations of motion for systems with hundreds, to millions
of particles.  See [www.gromacs.org](http://www.gromacs.org) for more
information.

This documentation generated by Doxygen is (mostly) extracted from the source
code, and provides documentation for understanding the source code.
The documentation can be generated with different levels of details.
This documentation has been generated to include
\if internal
all documentation, including internal functions and classes used for some
specific purpose.
\elseif libapi
documentation of functions in the library intended for reuse within the
library (a subset of these functions is also exposed as a public API).
\else
documentation of functions exposed through installed headers and intended as
part of a public API.  Note that definition of the public API is very
preliminary, and subject to change.
\endif

Currently, only parts of the code are documented here.  The following pages
give an overview of some of the topics that are documented:

 - \subpage page_codelayout <br/>
   This is a good place to start to understand how to
   navigate the code and the documentation.
 - \subpage page_analysisframework <br/>
   Provides an overview of the framework that the \Gromacs library provides for
   writing (trajectory) analysis tools.
\if libapi
 - \subpage thread_mpi <br/>
   This code is used internally for threading support, and also provides a
   (partial) MPI implementation that allows compiling a "thread-MPI" version of
   \Gromacs that can run on a single node with most of the functionality of a
   real MPI version.
\endif

This list will hopefully expand over time.
